Threat posed by Fissionable Material Does the availability of
fissionable material in the former states of the Soviet Union and its
susceptibility to theft, pose a real and growing threat that terrorist
groups/terrorist states will acquire such material and be able to
construct nuclear weapons?  Under the terms of the strategic
disarmament treaty with the U.S., the states of the former Soviet
Union have been dismantling 2000 warheads each year.  From each
warhead a shiny sphere of plutonium is extracted.  These spheres,
called "pits", are the elemental cores of a bomb.  In addition, other
forms of plutonium are scattered over the former Soviet Union in
institutes, laboratories, plants, shipyards and power stations.
Disgruntled employees, who are often underpaid or paid irregularly
have access to the plutonium.  This worries leaders in other
countries.  Enriched uranium, an alternate fuel, is harder to come by
because it is stored in well-guarded military facilities, but it is
easier to turn into a bomb.  The Russians have denied that it came
through or from their country, but German authorities believe that it
did.  Any item which speaks to failures in the safeguarding of nuclear
material or to black-market operations in nuclear material, or to
efforts of terrorist groups or terrorist states to acquire such
material would be relevant.
